README.md, before:

# Cooked - A Generate Software Orientation Workshop
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->

![GitHub Actions CI Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/GenerateNU/cooked/ci.yaml?branch=main&logo=github&label=CI)
![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/GenerateNU/cooked?label=License)

Welcome to the Fall 24 Software Orientation - a hackathon inspired workshop that will give you the opportunity to walk the basic stack of a typical Generate project.

## Goal

Teams of 8, over a 1.5 hour period, will collaborate to implement the backend and frontend components of a recipe application.
This repository, as is, provides the necessary foundation for all critical features that comprise the final deliverables.
Each team, at the end of the workshop, will be alloted 2 minutes to present their final product to a panel of judges who will grade based on the requirements and additional criteria listed below.

Requirements:

1. You must build two endpoints: **GET** (fetch) all recipes and **POST** (create) a recipe
2. You must implement a basic frontend (inspired, but not bound, by this [Figma](https://www.figma.com/design/FUc9oy4M56lHLYMGX7kOyZ/Engineering-Orientation?node-id=0-1&t=uy34xrVmav24AfgJ-1)) and pull data from the two aformentioned endpoints
3. Everyone must contribute (dock points if we notice people are sitting to the side)

Additional Criteria:

1. Humor - we all need a good laugh to get us through the first week of school
2. Additional Features - did your team create additional endpoints, enhance the frontend, etc.

Final Note:

- You will find a series of comments prefixed by **TODO** scattered across the repository. These indicate small tasks + where code should be written to meet the requirements.

## Tech Stack

- The backend is written in **Go** and uses [**Fiber**](https://docs.gofiber.io/) as a web framework
- The frontend used **Next.js** (React framework) and **Tanstack Query** (formerly React Query) for communicating with the backend
- The database is a **Postgres** instance hosted on Supabase and uses [**sqlx**](https://github.com/jmoiron/sqlx) for transactions

## Usage

1. [Install Nix](https://zero-to-nix.com/start/install)
2. Navigate to the repository in your terminal (use the `cd` command!)
3. Activate the development environment by running the following:

      ```sh
      nix develop --impure
      ```

   You will now have all of the tools you need to start building, including **Go**, **Node.js**, and **pnpm**!

4. Notice the list of commands available within the development environment. These are designed to simplify the development process.
   - Run the following to start the backend server:

        ```sh
        backend-dev
        ```

   - Run the following to start the frontend server:

        ```sh
        frontend-dev
        ```

   - Run the following to display a list of available commands:

        ```sh
        env-help
        ```
## Acknowledgements and Thank You's

This repository was developed by Alder Whiteford, Garret Ladley, and Jackson Terril as part of their role as Software Chiefs for Generate Product Development. Huge thank you to them for their efforts designing this workshop, and for allowing me to use it in my own work!

Commit message:

Update README.md with MD Formatting

README.md, after:

# Cooked - A Generate Software Orientation Workshop
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->

![GitHub Actions CI Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/GenerateNU/cooked/ci.yaml?branch=main&logo=github&label=CI)
![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/GenerateNU/cooked?label=License)

Welcome to the Fall 24 Software Orientation - a hackathon inspired workshop that will give you the opportunity to walk the basic stack of a typical Generate project.

## Goal

Teams of 8, over a 1.5 hour period, will collaborate to implement the backend and frontend components of a recipe application.
This repository, as is, provides the necessary foundation for all critical features that comprise the final deliverables.
Each team, at the end of the workshop, will be alloted 2 minutes to present their final product to a panel of judges who will grade based on the requirements and additional criteria listed below.

Requirements:

1. You must build two endpoints: **GET** (fetch) all recipes and **POST** (create) a recipe
2. You must implement a basic frontend (inspired, but not bound, by this [Figma](https://www.figma.com/design/FUc9oy4M56lHLYMGX7kOyZ/Engineering-Orientation?node-id=0-1&t=uy34xrVmav24AfgJ-1)) and pull data from the two aformentioned endpoints
3. Everyone must contribute (dock points if we notice people are sitting to the side)

Additional Criteria:

1. Humor - we all need a good laugh to get us through the first week of school
2. Additional Features - did your team create additional endpoints, enhance the frontend, etc.

Final Note:

- You will find a series of comments prefixed by **TODO** scattered across the repository. These indicate small tasks + where code should be written to meet the requirements.

## Tech Stack

- The backend is written in **Go** and uses [**Fiber**](https://docs.gofiber.io/) as a web framework
- The frontend used **Next.js** (React framework) and **Tanstack Query** (formerly React Query) for communicating with the backend
- The database is a **Postgres** instance hosted on Supabase and uses [**sqlx**](https://github.com/jmoiron/sqlx) for transactions

## Usage

1. [Install Nix](https://zero-to-nix.com/start/install)
2. Navigate to the repository in your terminal (use the `cd` command!)
3. Activate the development environment by running the following:

      ```sh
      nix develop --impure
      ```

   You will now have all of the tools you need to start building, including **Go**, **Node.js**, and **pnpm**!

4. Notice the list of commands available within the development environment. These are designed to simplify the development process.
   - Run the following to start the backend server:

        ```sh
        backend-dev
        ```

   - Run the following to start the frontend server:

        ```sh
        frontend-dev
        ```

   - Run the following to display a list of available commands:

        ```sh
        env-help
        ```
## Acknowledgements and Thank You's

Special thanks to the following for granting permission for me to share this workshop with my peers, and training me in its implementation:

- [Alder Whiteford](https://github.com/alderwhiteford), Chief of Software @ [GenerateNU](https://github.com/GenerateNU)
- [Garrett Ladley](https://github.com/garrettladley), Chief of Software @ [GenerateNU](https://github.com/GenerateNU)
- [Jackson Terrill](https://github.com/jtrrll), Chief of Software @ [GenerateNU](https://github.com/GenerateNU)
